-   [Structure and Design of the Web Publication](#structure-and-design-of-the-web-publication)
-   [Navigation in the Web Publication](#navigation-in-the-web-publication)
    -   [Smart Tags](#smart-tags)
    -   [Bread crumb](#bread-crumb)
    -   [Search](#search)
    -   [Diagram pages](#diagram-pages)
    -   [Object Properties](#object-properties)
    -   [Home / Contact Us / Help / Feedback](#home--contact-us--help--feedback)


### Structure and Design of the Web Publication

The web publication generated with the [WebPublisher](webpublisher) is
structured similarly to the [repository](repository) and contains the
diagrams and classes, objects and properties according to the
selected [publication settings](publication-settings).

In the top right part of the window you can choose the model for display
from all previously published models (sets); in addition, the
publication date is shown. In the left window the
published [classes](class), [objects](object) and [diagrams](diagram),
are shown according to the selected group settings (see content
publishing).

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/e5DNafe4Kcy4QK20UU6WW/7f0883f6da73324980e3c33ad5fa6fdd/328663.png)


When you click on an object on the diagram or in the tree placed in the
left window,  object's properties will be opened. Select a diagram, the
diagram is displayed in the right window as SVG graphic and the object
and diagram tree are displayed in the left window.

### Navigation in the Web Publication

With the navigation buttons in the header of the web publication, you
can change the size of the diagrams or reset it to the default size. In
addition, you can customize the page width or size. When the zoom size
of the diagram has been changed, the same size is also adopted for all
other diagrams.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/6KCI3OP7c4yUA4yyoogawm/d209b2121329274276326d2641245e17/328653.png)

*Smart tag*

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/7BynwuWkX6CYII0aEMwGK8/47648cae85e25912f099a78bee729aae/328655.png)

*Crumb path*

You can hide the object and diagram tree in the left window and show
them again, when you click on the icon in the header:

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/3kw1gxLAggQoMgCoeyWIig/ab62f96c9bc4e7c1dbbb880ccc07f67e/328665.png)

The diagram properties, can be opened by clicking on this icon:

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/2ZyGNoZkGIU6e86Cgy0E4O/2fc408b28b33a7ab1e2ef7663c969f85/328651.png)

#### Smart Tags

When an object is linked to a diagram, you can track this link with the
smart tag. In addition, files and websites linked to the respective
object are also displayed.

#### Bread crumb

The crumb path allows you to follow the path back to the diagram
currently displayed. It is displayed on the bottom right under the
current diagram.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/2rXiw98abeyykkmW0kCO2I/13b17a7af90da4b64d685e0b48a52d08/328643.png)

*Options for displaying diagram pages*

#### Search

With search you can search for objects and diagrams, indicating their
name in the portal. You can also use advanced search, when you

-   enter a search term in the search box and press Enter or
-   click on the icon to the right of Time / Date (another click closes
    the search again):

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/6xG1ehgIy40OSmgMkqSGGM/6c1d3dc336de643bdc708ba3a18344cd/328657.png)

In the advanced search, you can define in which unit or class the search
should be carried out. Objects found are highlighted with the green and
diagrams with the red symbol as in the repository. Objects, in whose
name the search term exists, are listed first, and only then follow the
objects in whose property name the search term exists.

<div class="info">
Note:

Web-Publication must run on a web server if you want to use the search
function; this means that (offline) HTML publications do not have the
search function. The respective button is not displayed in offline
publications.
</div>

#### Diagram pages

It is of course possible to publish multiple pages from a diagram to Web
(see [Update publication](updating-a-publication)) and then open them in
the Web. You can either select a desired diagram page from the drop down
menu or open all diagram pages simultaneously in separate tabs by
clicking on the appropriate button.

#### Object Properties

When you click on an object on a diagram or in the left window, its
properties are displayed in the right window along with information as
to in which diagrams the object is used and with which diagrams or
objects it is linked. For linked objects, information is displayed as to
the class from which the linked object originates, its link type and via
which association object it is linked. [Shape-specific
properties](shape-specific-properties) are also displayed in the object
properties.

#### Home / Contact Us / Help / Feedback

The configuration of these links can be managed individually and easily
via the WebPublisher (see [Selecting the Path and Functions](selecting-the-path-and-functions)).

