-   **Choose a Set**

In one set, settings for the publication of reports with Word are
stored. You can select an already defined set or define a new
one ***(New*** button). You can select sets no longer needed and delete
them by clicking on the Remove button. 

![WordRep set](//images.ctfassets.net/6mz8d8cle1nl/1EDXWQmIQcVhXN4VRGmLFO/ec76509f0454ae8d996196311fa4a550/WordRep_set.png)

In the window that opens you can define the set name and the description
as well as enter the translations. For existing sets you open this
window by clicking on set details. The name of the set and the
description can be translated into other languages; to open the
translation window, click the button T. 

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/18ciDWhDNSeIk6KCAuOAIK/69aae69ccaae5285a6acfa1c1b0d4157/328986.png)

![WordRep set 2](//images.ctfassets.net/6mz8d8cle1nl/5MEuNewuoUIfa5En4yHtvo/5ff4267ca61890705bf45d00ab692c86/WordRep_set_2.png)

If a set is already saved, then it is marked with the
symbol ![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/2E3aKO9z7aYSAO4oOoAkyc/25e0c7a93b4489271db249bf4c0e8ba6/328567.png). If
you create a new one or save an old set as new, then the same symbol is
used, but is also marked with a question mark. 

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/1QVczhPLioc2Q6Ccg4KWWY/d5e29036133a2f2223e1145e975c16e0/328974.png)

-   **Unit**

Select one or more desired units from which you want to transfer data
(object descriptions and diagrams) into a Word document. To
select/deselect all units in a branch, right-click on the unit.

-   **Word Template**

The formatting properties you prefer are defined based on a template
("\* .dot" file). Process4.biz provides you with a template for this
purpose under the given path. You can customize this file before
publication individually or save your personal formatting settings in a
separate template (see also [Document template for
WordReporter](document-template-for-wordreporter)). Please be aware when
formatting that the content generated by Word Reporter is entered after
the front page and the summary (= Management Summary).

-   **Report storage place**

Report can be saved to the folder on the disk or in the process4.biz database. Select necessary place  and enter the desired file name and the path where the created report will be saved to the corresponding field. 

![WordRep set 3](//images.ctfassets.net/6mz8d8cle1nl/4TYki2J3fFFGnWxphMi7R/9878199d80387584eb5d605ddc1af9bc/WordRep_set_3.png)

By means of the following options, you can influence the arrangement of
diagrams and the objects located thereon and expressions on the report:

-   **Diagrams as embedded Visio files**

Through this function, process4.biz diagrams are exported as Visio
objects. Exporting data as a Visio files takes longer than exporting
diagrams as images.

-   **Diagrams as Images**

If you choose this option, process4.biz diagrams are inserted in PNG
format, i.e. as images in the report. Diagrams that are saved as BLOB
objects directly in the database or are password protected (see [protect diagram](diagram) or [Database settings](database-settings)), can ONLY
be exported as PNG images and not as Visio objects.

-   **Publish each of the diagrams together with its objects and their
    expressions in succession**

In this case, a picture of the diagram is shown from the hierarchically
highest diagram and then the expressions of the object are listed
thereon before a representation of the next diagram follows, etc.

-   **Publish first all diagrams before objects and their
    characteristics are listed**

When select this option, first all diagrams are shown and then their
objects are described.

-   **Generate the list of attributes in table form  
    **

This option presents the object properties in tabular form in the
published Word document. Property names and values are juxtaposed line
by line in a clear table with two columns.

-   **Suppression of empty data fields**

Select this option if you do not want to include empty data fields in
the report. Object properties with no content assigned to them are thus
skipped during evaluation.

-   **Index of contents**

This option creates contents automatically. It is inserted before the
content in the report.

-   **Index of key words**

Select this option for the automatic generation of an index of key
words. The index is inserted at the end of the report and includes the
names of all objects and diagrams, which are part of the published Word
Report.

-   **View the data display**

Define if only diagrams should be displayed, objects should be listed or
diagrams and objects should be displayed in the generated report.

***Advanced Settings:***

-   **Export diagram properties**

By activating this option, diagram properties will be exported and added
to each diagram in the Word document (see [Select diagram
properties](selecting-diagram-properties))

-   **Export object and diagram links**

By activating this option, object and diagram links are listed with
object properties. These links contain references to corresponding
objects or diagrams available in the Word document (see
Chapter [Exported contents](exported-contents)).

-   **Include objects that are not used on any diagram**

By ticking this check box of the selected units, ALL objects are
included in the report (not only those that are used on diagrams). In
this way you can also export objects into the document, which are indeed
maintained in the database, but do not appear on the diagrams. Such
objects are listed at the end of the document in relation to the listing
of diagrams and objects, independent of other settings listed.

-   **Export shape-specific data**

It is possible to create shape-specific data for an object in
[process4.biz](http://process4.biz), depending on the shape
representation on diagrams (see [Shape-Specific
Properties](shape-specific-properties)) .These shape-specific data from
an object can be exported to Word. Two variants are possible. 

  
When the option **"Publish each of the diagrams together with its
objects and their expressions in succession"** is activated,
shape-specific properties are listed in relation to the above specified
diagram. 

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/5CQQfXYube2C88MwGoCe2G/4ae123a5f27f75391998bcd8f8623857/328576.png)

When the option **"Publish all diagrams first before the objects and
their expressions are listed"**, shape-specific properties for the
entire list of diagrams are published. Under the Visio shape information
it is displayed on which diagram the shape is used. 

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/69PYhtAcakWCMEe2iO0kkQ/d5a7d2b39d62d44c41aee7a8dfbb6f78/328577.png)

Please note that shape-specific data are greyed out by default; you have
to activate it in the [Selection of the Data](selecting-the-data).

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/7ch0F9qQFiKIqScgwi8c6a/b4820e7a88fe6bf8a8cefc948fbc36ae/328578.png)

-   **Exclude all items that you have defined to be invisible in the
    Modeler  
    **

Units, classes, objects and diagrams can be marked as invisible in
process4.biz (see [Visibility Settings](visibility-settings) and [add /
edit design item](repository)). If you enable this option, these
invisible items are excluded from the Word report. This means: 

a) invisible classes are not displayed in the window selection of data
and objects of these classes are not exported. 

 b) invisible objects are not exported, even though the classes of these
objects are selected for export. 

 c) invisible diagrams are not displayed in the window diagram sorting,
if the option "sort diagrams by property"  is selected. If the option
"Generate diagram tree" is selected,  invisible diagrams are visible but
greyed out, i.e. not selectable (see section [Extended Diagram
sorting](extended-diagram-sorting)). 

  
-	**Export hyperlink name address** 
This option allow ignoring the name of hyperlinks in the report and presenting only its value. The options is not active by default and when it is not selected in the report exported names of hyperlinks (it still operates as link).   


On the bottom left in the wizard there are the following buttons:

-   **Help**

Opens the help for Word Reporter

-   **Save**

If you click here you can save the set at any time during the Wizard,
before the export is complete.

-   **Save as ...**

Saves a new set based on the currently selected.

-   **Cancel**

Cancel the wizard without any changes.

-   **Back**

Return to the previous page of the wizard.

-   **Next and Finish**

There are two ways to continue this dialogue:

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/4ISwfNSNYAuoEgQyWSaI2E/64691a22306a1553e9e4766a4c6eb7f2/328976.png)

When you click the ***Next*** button, you can specify more accurately
the data and diagrams for export (see the following section [Selection
of data](selecting-the-data) and [extended diagram
sorting](extended-diagram-sorting)). Your selection will be saved as a
preset for future exports under the specified set name.

With the ***Finish*** button, the selected report is created
immediately. In this case an already saved set is used and it will start
the export process with the existing set definitions (see
chapter [Extended Diagram sorting](extended-diagram-sorting)).

 
