The Visio function ***"Link data with shapes"*** can also be used for
process4.biz objects. This means that you can connect Excel rows
directly with process4.biz objects. This information is stored in the
database and can be displayed on all diagrams where the object is used.
A simple example shows how to create this connection.   
You have created for example this process4.biz diagram:

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/2fpkhi7vQceOwI6eIceACs/4169ce7183508cd32299d940ad5c367d/329089.png)

At the same time you have an Excel file in which object properties (such
as color, here) are described.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/1JoZqc02P6iCCgKIOQUiOO/89a2a8d4b33290bc4e4fa3dabbf60fa2/329091.png)

You now want to connect the process4.biz objects on the diagrams with
the Excel rows. Here external data should not be imported as
process4.biz properties in the database, but they should be preserved in
the Excel file and be connected to internal objects in the database. To
connect to external data, open from the Visio menu ***Data*** the entry
***Custom Import*** and select ***Microsoft Excel workbook***.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/32WrxsnZjWCaai8MKOckSy/771061d146401b545dfaa57c0d0c829f/329143.png)

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/4Y5z7xUY3em2YKQ6EiQiWi/c99a58719749b393df8c846af23f7eea/329141.png)

Select the Excel file that should be linked.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/7L5GZwLqvuKIumgs2cywqA/3e28aaa4ffa9def8553b9df3f409e20c/329145.png)

Define which Excel worksheet you want to use.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/5EoeCNff68gegEwgU2YwSo/3e7a092575e68c7c69cd682ccdd03164/329147.png)

Select here columns and rows that you want to display on the diagram:

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/3Yfk3Knw8wI2OYCAKyYo48/042d720c54d3e6ae13f16f66cef07efe/329137.png)

Select this column, by which Excel data on diagrams should be identified
and later updated. For example, the column Name or ID can be selected.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/5oKEdOLwdysOYI4QYSKk4m/748b2f5fbfa407d55398e9a214e75ba0/329139.png)

Then click ***Finish.***

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/3gmZf29IUEUYoKuMkUec4A/2e8ad53c8e636297341b56d7dc4f0c5f/329125.png)

The Excel file is linked to the diagram. An image of the Excel table is
displayed on the side (or bottom, depending on your UI settings in
Visio) of the diagram.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/2Hmm0UEilWIGmEoUK42YOw/067b28debe7ccd20900f33611bfc6000/329127.png)

Now you can link the desired row with the object using drag& drop. The
linked data are displayed according to the selected visualization, for
example as a text on the right of the shape. The appearance of the text
or the type of visualization can be changed by means of the data
graphics. This window can be opened on the right of the diagram via the
Visio menu ***Data*** ***→*** ***Shape Data...*** and allows you to
display the data as text, data bars, icon set or color according to
value. In Visio 2019 the data graphics view can be adjusted under menu
***Advanced Data Graphics***:

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/5nCL6pFg9Uqy6E8A8KYSYS/58fbb84f11c36a7d7c6480b2b9dc81e4/329129.png)

In our example, there is as yet no process4.biz property to synchronize
with the shape data; therefore, it is now produced and configured.   
Right-click on the shape of the object and choose ***Equip with p4b
properties → Equip the shape with object-properties of Process4.biz***.
Thus, the following window opens.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/nhjYUcQ5Hwwwgi2Qc0Usm/adf2cc5ad3f82ed8cfb7e810c85c7d55/329117.png)

Now click on the property group e.g. ***Definition*** and click
the ***New*** button to create a new property. Enter a name (e.g.
***Color),*** set the property ***Shape-specific*** to ***True*** and
the property ***sync*** to ***Visio =&gt; P4B.*** If you do not want or
do not need that the same object has different values of this property
on the different shapes, leave the
property ***Shape-specific*** to ***False.*** Now click OK to close the
property window. (This process can also be carried out in the Designer).

Now select the property ***Color*** to activate the synchronization, and
select the value Description for the property Visio Shapes target cell.
The Visio shape data have been already generated by Visio. Define the
synchronization **Visio =&gt; P4b.** Click OK to close the window.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/3EdX1M4Yy4ycCOA8kEayAi/7e991aae4b75fcff7f36601336e9926c/328175.png)

Then save the diagram. The shape-specific process4.biz
property ***Color*** has now the value of the shape data (actually the
value from an Excel row). You can see the value also in the Property
Explorer window.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/1ztZ5XXDycQESkOOcYkSaG/baa23301f2bc4d42c5698f119f4a52ab/328177.png)

Now the Excel document is changed, e.g. the color is changed from red
(R) to pink (p) and is saved.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/5seDSmOp20q2GGuque8AME/3436463b51a39dd20e7040c3e79ccf57/328176.png)

To update the external data to Visio, click ***Refresh All*** in the
Visio menu.Visio displays a window and informs you about the successful
update. This window can be closed. The updated Excel value appears now
in the Visio shape data and in the process4.biz shape-specific property.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/5e7f1nHG6kmOSAAwWEECaM/18549b3b983152ef1c492cd17a6d4d50/328174.png)
