-   [Workspace Components](#workspace-components)
    -   [User](#user)
        -   [Login / Logout](#login--logout)
    -   [Structural Elements and
        Data](#structural-elements-and-data)
        -   [Repository](#repository)
        -   [Database Designer](#database-designer)
        -   [Link Matrix](#link-matrix)
        -   [Class Matrix](#class-matrix)
        -   [Tags](#tags)
        -   [Diagram](#diagram)
        -   [Graphical Visio Modeler](#graphical-visio-modeler)
    -   [Tools and Reports](#tools-and-reports)
    -   [Administration](#administration)
    -   [Help](#help)
        -   [License Activation](#license-activation)
    -   [Status Bar](#status-bar)


After a successful login in a process4.biz database, the repository is
opened by default and the process4.biz menu appears in the Visio menu.
The options available in this menu for each logged-in user and their
relevant functions are controlled via the privileges and are usually
only fully available to administrators.

![](//images.ctfassets.net/utx1h0gfm1om/3LpUTv43bGAAYYYEUguWEi/34c3d0a1154026bc431108f16fbd57b8/329598.png)

*The process4.biz working environment (standard view after admin login
in a database)*

### Workspace Components

#### User

##### Login / Logout

See: [Login / Logout](login-logout)

#### Structural Elements and Data

##### Repository

The repository is used for filling the structure previously created with
the Database Designer. Here, the objects and diagrams created by you are
stored and managed.

##### Database Designer

The Database Designer provides the interface for managing the basic
structure of your database and is used to organise your data. Here
classes and properties and property groups are managed or links defined.

##### Link Matrix

The link matrix displays all object links existing in the database
including possible existing association objects. All of these elements
(objects, object links, association objects) can be edited in the
matrix.

See: [Link Matrix](link-matrix)

##### Class Matrix

The class matrix provides a view with the link types and link
technologies that can be defined for each class combination and be
filtered and edited in the matrix according to units and classes.

See: [Class Matrix](class-matrix)

##### Tags

See: [Tags](tags)


##### Diagram

The functions grouped under this point enable you to open and edit
diagrams in the Graphical Visio Modeler. In addition, the [import of
diagrams](importing-visio-diagrams) as well as the wizard for updating diagrams are available.

##### Graphical Visio Modeler

With the Graphical Visio Modeler, you model diagrams using the known
functions and user interface of Visio.

See: [Graphical Visio Modeler](graphical-visio-modeler)

#### Tools and Reports

This area includes the extension modules.

#### Administration

See: [Menus & Settings](menus-and-settings)

#### Help

Information about the currently installed version of process4.biz and
contact with Helpdesk.

##### License Activation

See: [Activation or Prolongation of Your License](activating-and-prolonging-your-license)

#### Status Bar

At the bottom of the Visio window, the process4.biz status bar appears.
Here you will find information about the currently used client release
(incl. Build number) and the currently connected database; the status
bar includes also the number of users logged in as well as the name of
the user logged in this Visio instance. If you right-click on the number
of logged-in users, more information about the logged in users is
displayed.
<hr style="padding-top:2rem" />
<a href="https://github.com/process4/docs/issues" target="_blank" class="bgw btn btn-primary btn-lg shadow-sm">Report an issue</a>
<a href="https://github.com/process4/docs" target="_blank" class="bgw btn btn-primary btn-lg shadow-sm" style="margin-left:10px;">View source code</a>