Helpdesk (= technical support) is available
on \<helpdesk@process4.biz\> and caters for all problem reports and
questions regarding the functions of the software covered by the annual
Maintenance & Software Assurance.

### FAQ and Troubleshooting

Before the helpdesk contact is made, it is advisable to consult the
following collection of links to FAQs and tips for troubleshooting.

### Contents of a support request

*The ability to contact the help desk from the software (process4.biz
menu).  
*

In order to ensure an as fas as possible and target-aimed solution, we
kindly ask you to keep the following key points in mind, when contacting
Helpdesk:

1.  An overall description of the problem  
    If possible, please include screenshots and if necessary log files
    (see: [Inst\_005: Running the setup with a logfile](#){.unresolved},
     [Activate the logfile](http://help.process4.biz/confluence/display/DOCEN/Client+Settings#ClientSettings-Activatethelogfile)
    as well as [WebP\_016: Troubleshooting & logfile for WebPublications](#).  
      
2.  Ways in which the problem may reoccur  
    If possible: a most detailed description of how the problem may
    reoccur.  
      
3.  Expected result  
    What should be achieved? (e.g. save diagram)  
      
4.  Actual result  
    What happens instead of the expected result? (e.g. error message
    appears in screenshot)  
      
5.  Additional information  
    Any information, which could be useful in solving the problem. (e.g.
    We just switched to Visio 2013, since then X appears... etc.)  
      

Attention:

Problems and/or errors due to contents which do not belong to the
standard functionality of the software, are not covered by the annual
Maintenance & Software Assurance.

This also means that the adaptation of custom shapes, templates, forms
etc. is excluded from support demand. These questions can be directed to
<sales@process4.biz> and be dealt with by our consultants.

From our EULA:

Updating or ensuring the functionality of the Visio diagrams, shapes,
stencils, and templates created with process4.biz as well as forms in
Shapesheet during a release change of process4.biz is in no case
included in the maintenance carried out by us. Particularly not when
during a release change the underlying Microsoft software was/had to be
updated to a higher release. Nor are web publications or reports changed
via custom stylesheets, programs, forms deviating from the standard ones
repaired as part of maintenance. Maintenance does not cover the above
cases during a release change even if our consultants helped you to
design diagrams, shapes, stencils, templates, stylesheets, and reports
with a former release. In all these cases we offer you our support with
charged consulting services and instructions.

<hr style="padding-top:2rem" />
<a href="https://github.com/process4/docs/issues" target="_blank" class="bgw btn btn-primary btn-lg shadow-sm">Report an issue</a>
<a href="https://github.com/process4/docs" target="_blank" class="bgw btn btn-primary btn-lg shadow-sm" style="margin-left:10px;">View source code</a>